1.What is Linux? 
Linux is an operating system based on UNIX and was first introduced by Linus Torvalds. It is based on the Linux Kernel and can run on different hardware platforms manufactured by Intel, MIPS, HP, IBM, SPARC, and Motorola. Another popular element in Linux is its mascot, a penguin figure named Tux. 
2.What is the difference between UNIX and LINUX?

 Unix originally began as a propriety operating system from Bell Laboratories, which later on spawned into different commercial versions. On the other hand, Linux is free, open source and intended as a non-propriety operating system for the masses.

3 .List some commands in the Linux ?
Navigating the File System
Sr.No.
Command & Description
1
cat filename
Displays a filename
2
cd dirname
Moves you to the identified directory
3
cp file1 file2
Copies one file/directory to the specified location
4
file filename
Identifies the file type (binary, text, etc)
5
find filename dir
Finds a file/directory
6
head filename
Shows the beginning of a file
7
less filename
Browses through a file from the end or the beginning
8
ls dirname
Shows the contents of the directory specified
9
mkdir dirname
Creates the specified directory
10
more filename
Browses through a file from the beginning to the end
11
mv file1 file2
Moves the location of, or renames a file/directory
12
pwd
Shows the current directory the user is in
13
rm filename
Removes a file
14
rmdir dirname
Removes a directory
15
tail filename
Shows the end of a file
16
touch filename
Creates a blank file or modifies an existing file or its attributes
17
whereis filename
Shows the location of a file
18
which filename
Shows the location of a file if it is in your PATH
19
uname
uname’ can display much more technical information about your hardware and OS apart from name of the OS.
5.What are the basic components of Linux?
The basic components of Linux are:
Kernel: It is the core component of the Operating System that manages operations and hardware. 
Shell: Shell is a Linux interpreter which is used to execute commands. 
GUI: GUI stands for Graphical User Interface which is another way for a user to interact with the system. But unlike CLI, GUI consists of Images, Buttons, TextBoxes for interaction. 
System Utilities: These are the software functions that allows the user to manage the computer. 
Application Programs: Software programs or set of functions designed to accomplish a specific task.
6. What is LILO?
LILO stands for LInux LOader. LILO is a Linux Boot Loader that loads Linux Operating System into the main memory to begin execution.
7. What is file system ?
Linux File System or any file system generally is a layer that is under the operating system that handles the positioning of your data on the storage; without it, the system cannot knows which file starts from where and ends where,   
 
4) What is grep command? 
grep a search command that makes use of pattern-based searching. Grep stands for Global regular expression print. It makes use of options and parameters that are specified along with the command line and applies this pattern in searching the required file output. 

Option 
Function 
-v 
Shows all the lines that do not match the searched string 
-c 
Displays only the count of matching lines 
-n 
Shows the matching line and its number 
-i 
Match both (upper and lower) case 
-l 
Shows just the name of the file with the string

6. Which are the Shells used in Linux?
The most common Shells used in Linux are
bash: Bourne Again Shell is the default for most of the Linux distributions 
ksh: Korn Shell is a high-level programming language shell 
csh: C Shell follows C like syntax and provides spelling correction and Job Control 
zsh: Z Shell provides some unique features such as filename generation, startup files, login/logout watching, closing comments etc. 
fish: Friendly Interactive Shell provides some special features like web-based configuration, auto-suggestions, fully scriptable with clean scripts

